All the summarised modelled effects can be downloaded as a single
comma separated (csv) file via the blue **Download effects as csv**
button. Upon clicking the button, a dialog box will appear from which
you can select a filename (a name that includes the current date is
provided by default) and path. Since the Longitude and Latitude for
numerous sites appears to have drifted over time, the Longitude and
Latitudes included in the downloaded file represents the mean Latitude
and Longitude for the Site. At this stage, Longitude and Latitude are
not provided for Zone and Area scale model estimates.

Similarly, all of the summarised modelled cell means (trends) can be
downloaded as a single comma separated (csv) file via the **Download
trends as csv** button. Notes on Longitude and Latitude are as above.

::: {.callout-important}
The routine behind this later button involves compiling together all
posteriors across all scales and summarising each of them. These steps
take a few minutes to complete. During this time, you are free to
navigate around the application. However, be mindful that at some time
a dialog box will eventually popup and assume focus. Hence, if you are
not paying attention, you may accidentally change the filename and/or
path, or else cancel the download event altogether - in which case,
you will need to ask it to download again and it will need to
re-compile and summarise the modelled results all over.
:::
